ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³        Host Interface Simulator Program for BM/HITACHI 747     ³
³                                                                ³
³                       Operators Manual                         ³
³                                                                ³
³  File: "SI747ENH.TXT"           Language version: english      ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

Contents:

1.0 Purpose of the program

2.0 Installation

3.0 Using the system desktop

4.0 Functionality
 4.1 Connecting a host computer
 4.2 Using the text window
 4.3 Buffer for sent messages
 4.4 Trace window

5.0 Menu system
 5.1 Main menu item "HIT747-Text"
  5.1.1 Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating test requests"
  5.1.2 Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating multiple requests"
  5.1.3 Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating result frames"
  5.1.4 Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating TNNA packet"
  5.1.5 Menu item "HIT747-Text/Control frames"
 5.2 Main menu item "Trace"
  5.2.1 Menu item "Trace/Open trace file"
  5.2.2 Menu item "Trace/Close trace file"
  5.2.3 Menu item "Trace/Display trace file"
  5.2.4 Menu item "Trace/Delete trace file"
  5.2.5 Menu item "Trace/Clear communication window"
 5.3 Main menu item "Test selection file"
  5.3.1 Menu item "Test selection file/Display file"
  5.3.2 Menu item "Test selection file/Delete file"
 5.4 Main menu item "Parameter"
  5.4.1 Menu item "Parameter/Communication ON/OFF"
  5.4.2 Menu item "Parameter/RS-232 Parameter"
  5.4.3 Menu item "Parameter/HIT 747 system parameter"
  5.4.4 Menu item "Parameter/File mode for test selection requests"
  5.4.5 Menu item "Parameter/Error checking"
  5.4.6 Menu item "Parameter/Test list"
  5.4.7 Menu item "Parameter/Program configuration"
 5.5 Main menu item "?"
  5.5.1 Help function
  5.5.2 Program info
  5.5.3 Termination of the program
 
6.0 Technical specifications
 6.1 Files of the program package
 6.2 Hardware requirements

7.0 Update Information



1.0 Purpose of the program
    ----------------------
This program serves to simulate the host interface of the
BM/HITACHI 747 analyzer. With this program it is possible to test or
demonstrate any kind of host software.
Each message that the analyzer sends can be created manually and sent
to the connected host system.

2.0 Installation
    ------------
Insert the installation disk into your computer and start the program
'INSTALL' on the DOS level:

        e.g.:        A:INSTALL   <Enter>

You have to enter the path on your hard disk onto which the program
package is to be copied.
After confirming the 'Start Installation' button, the selected pro-
grams and files are decompressed and copied onto the hard disk.

Start the Simulator program by entering the starting prompt:

                  SIMU747.EXE   <Enter>

3.0 Using the system desktop
    ------------------------
After starting the program, the terms "HIT747-Text", "Trace-File", ...
will be displayed in the first button line on top of the screen.
These are the main menu items of the program.
Each term will reveal a submenu showing the individual functions of
that main menu item in the second button line. The function is started
by pressing the corresponding menu button.
The program can be operated with a mouse or the keyboard.
Mouse operation is easier since menu and selection items or command
buttons can be clicked directly whereas keyboard operation first
requires activation with <Tab> key and then confirmation with the
<Enter> key.

4.0 Functionality
    -------------
4.1. Connecting a host computer
Simulator- and host computer are connected via the serial interface
RS232. So you have to connect the two computers with the adequate
interface cable (null modem cable).

4.2. Using the text window
In the middle of the screen you can see the text field which can be
used to enter messages that shall be sent to the host manually.
The message is sent as soon as you press the 'Send' button.
If the communication is switched on (see chapter 5.4.1) the simulator
sends the first control frame ('ANY' frame) and from then on every
3 second after receiving the acknowledgement from the host.
If this communication mode is activated the manually entered text is
sent after pressing the 'Send' button instead of the next control frame.
Above the text window the actual text length is displayed.

4.3. Buffer for sent messages
The last ten sent messages are stored in a buffer and can be called
back into the text window by pressing the 'Previous' button.

4.4. Trace window
The complete communication in both directions is displayed in the
trace window in the lower part of the screen.
The sent messages are displayed in blue color the received messages
in green.
Each message starts with the sender identification ('CU' for Control
Unit or 'Host'). Then the actual time and the message itself is
displayed.
The control characters within the start and end codes are replaced by
mnemonics which makes it easier to read the trace:

   Code 02h (Start of text)      replaced by  [STX]
   Code 03h (End of text)        replaced by  [ETX]
   Code 0Dh (Carriage return)    replaced by  [CR]
   Code 0Ah (Line feed)          replaced by  [LF]
   Code 20h (Space)              replaced by  ^

5.0 Menu system
    -----------

5.1. Main menu item "HIT747-Text"
With this main menu item you get the possibility to create manually
single or multiple test selection requests, result frames, control-
and analyzer information frames. These frames are entered into the
text window and can be sent to the host with the 'Send' button.

5.1.1. Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating single test selection requests"
This option opens a data mask which allows to enter all data items
that are included in a test selection request. These are ...

   Barcode mode:           with barcode reader
                           without barcode reader (Sample no. mode)

   Class:                  Class 1 (e.g. Serum)
                           Class 2 (e.g. Urine)

   Sample type:            Routine
                           Automatic Rerun
                           Manual Rerun
                           STAT

   Sample information:     Sample no.
                           Rack no.
                           Position no.
                           Sample identification

By pressing the 'Ok' button the test selection request frame is
generated and entered into the text window. Now you can sent it by
pressing the 'Send' button.

5.1.2. Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating multiple test selection requests"
The analyzer can work either in the single or the multiple test
selection request mode. At the analyzer, these two modes can be selected
from host side with operation control frames or in the 'System Functions'
screen.
This menu option opens a data mask which allows to enter all data items
that are included in a multiple test selection request. These are ...

   Barcode mode:           with barcode reader
                           without barcode reader (Sample no. mode)

   Class:                  Class 1 (e.g. Serum)
                           Class 2 (e.g. Urine)

   Sample type:            Routine
                           Automatic Rerun
                           Manual Rerun
                           STAT

   Sample information      Sample no.
    for up to 5 samples:   Rack no.
                           Position no.
                           Sample identification

By pressing the 'Ok' button the test selection request frame is
generated and entered into the text window. Now you can sent it by
pressing the 'Send' button.

5.1.3. Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating result frames"
This option opens a data mask which allows to enter all data items that
are included in a result frame. These are ...

   Barcode mode:           with barcode reader
                           without barcode reader (Sample no. mode)

   Class:                  Class 1 (e.g. Serum)
                           Class 2 (e.g. Urine)

   Result type:            Routine
                           Automatic Rerun
                           Manual Rerun
                           STAT
                           STAT Rerun
                           Control
                           Photometric Calibration
                           ISE Calibration

   Type of communication:  Realtime mode
                           Batch Mode
 
   Sample information:     Sample no.
                           Rack no.
                           Position no.
                           Sample identification
   
   Test results:           Test no.
                           Value
                           Alarm character

If the test number text field is selected, you get a list of all
test names by pressing the function key <F1>. The test names can be
modified with the 'Test list' option (see chapter 5.4.6).
If the alarm character text field is selected, the <F1> key gives
you the list of all available alarm characters including the short
description of the alarms.
The 'Add' button adds the result entry into the result list. It is
possible to delete single results out of this list or to delete the
whole result list.
By pressing the 'Ok' button the result frame is generated and entered
into the text window. Now you can sent it by pressing the 'Send'
button.

5.1.4. Menu item "HIT747-Text/Creating TNNA/TCA packet"
After pressing this menu button the simulator sends four frames to
the host where each frame has to be acknowledged by the host (with a
'MOR' frame).
These frames contain the 60 test names (see 5.4.6 "Test List") and the
test code assignment. The analyzer sends these frames each time the
instrument and host communication is switched on for the first time.

5.1.5. Menu item "HIT747-Text/Control frames"
This menu item offers three control frames:
  'ANY' - positive acknowledgement
          .. is automatically sent 3 seconds after receiving the message
          from the host
  'REP' - negative acknowledgement
          .. tells the host to repeat the last message
  'SUS' - suspend
          .. tells the host to repeat the last message after a delay

5.2. Main menu item "Trace"
The complete data transfer between simulator and host is displayed
in the window in the lower part of the screen (see chapter 4.4).
If necessary the data transfer can also be stored in a file for later
analysis. The following menu items handle those trace files.

5.2.1. Menu item "Trace/Open trace file"
This function opens a new or already existing trace file. All data
transfer is stored in this file for further processing or analyzing.
All trace files are automatically provided with the file name
extension ".TRC".

5.2.2. Menu item "Trace/Close trace file"
The already opened trace file is closed again. Now you can take a
look at the contents of this trace file (see next menu item).

5.2.3. Menu item "Trace/Display trace file"
A file selection mask is displayed which offers the possibility to
select any existing trace file that shall be displayed. An editor
program is started to display the file and comments to the trace if
necessary.
In 'Communication ON' status (see chapter 5.4.1) the "Display trace
file" option is not available.

5.2.4. Menu item "Trace/Delete trace file"
Trace files that are no longer needed can be deleted from the
harddisk.

5.2.5. Menu item "Trace/Clear trace window"
This menu item deletes the contents of the trace window on the
screen.

5.3. Main menu item "Test selection file"
All received test selection frames are stored in a temporary file
named 'SI747WRK.DAT' for later analysis.

5.3.1. Menu item "Test selection file/Display file"
This menu item starts an external editor program to display the
contents of the test selection file 'SI747WRK.DAT'. Each test
selection is stored in one separate line which has the following
format:

HH:MM:SSFU RRRRSSSSSPIIIIIIIIIIIIICCTTTTT....TTT

 HH       Hour    \
 MM       Minute   >   time when the test selection arrived 
 SS       Second  /
 F        Frame character (; for test selection )
 U        Function character
 RRRR     Rack no.
 SSSSS    Sample no.
 P        Position
 IIIII..  13 character ident no.
 CC       Test count
 TTTT...  49 Testflags (1 = Test selected)

 length:  97 characters

In 'Communication ON' status (see chapter 5.4.1) this display option
is not available.

5.3.2. Menu item "Test selection file/Delete file"
This option deletes the temporary file 'SI747WRK.DAT' where all
received test selections are stored.

5.4. Main menu item "Parameter"

5.4.1. Menu item "Parameter/Communication ON/OFF"
According to the 'Communication YES' switch on the 'Start Conditions'
screen of the Hit 747 software you can switch on and off the communi-
cation of the simulator with this menu item.
If switched on, the simulator sends the first 'ANY' frame to the host.
From now on it sends the 'ANY' frame every 3 seconds after receiving
the last message from the host.
The communication status is displayed in the status line on the screen.

5.4.2. Menu item "Parameter/RS-232 Parameter"
If host and simulator shall communicate with each other, the serial
interface parameters have to match.
You have to adjust the baud rate, the number of data and stopbits,
the parity bit as well as the number of the serial port that you use
for communication (COM1 or COM2).
The actual interface parameters are displayed in the status line on the
screen.
All the above mentioned settings can be found in the 'System Parameters'
screen of the Hit 747 software.
In 'Communication YES' status this option is not available.

5.4.3. Menu item "Parameter/HIT 747 system parameter"
With this menu item you get a data mask which contains all Hit 747
specific settings concerning the host communication. These are:
  - Maximum text length
    if the options '256 char.' is selected, those result frames that
    are longer than 256 characters are divided into several frames
    which are sent one after the other.
    (where each single frame has to be acknowledged by the host)
  - Retry Count
    This is the number of retries ('REP' frames) that the simulator
    sends to reestablish communication if the host does not answer.
    After the last retry, the instrument issues a timeout alarm and
    the communication is switched off.
    The retry count can be set from 1 to 99 retries.
  - Retry Time
    This is the time between the above described retries to reestablish
    communication. This time can be set from 1 to 99 seconds.

The above described settings are to be done on the 'System Parameters'
screen of the Hit 747 software.

5.4.4. Menu item "Parameter/File mode for test selection requests"
This file mode offers another two modes of this simulator program.

1. Reading test selection request frames out of a prepared file and
   sending them automatically to the host.
   (to simulate the realtime test selection mode)
   The format of such a test selection request in the file is as
   follows (line length: 26)

   Format  : FU RRRRSSSSSPIIIIIIIIIIIII
             ³³³³   ³    ³³
             ³³³³   ³    ³Ident no.
             ³³³³   ³    Position no.
             ³³³³   Sample no.
             ³³³Rack no.
             ³³Space
             ³Function character
             Frame Identification
   Example:  ;A   10 1             3455

2. Creating and sending result frames out of previously received test
   selections.
   (to simulate the realtime result transfer)

To activate option 1 you have to enter the name of the prepared file
which contains the test selection requests. The test selection requests
in the file must have the same format than the message that is sent to
the host.
Use any editor program to generate such a test selection request file
but be sure to generate vaild data, because the data items are not
checked before they are sent.
Start and end codes are added when the message is sent to the host.
An additional option decides whether the test requests are sent every
second ANY/MOR cycle (worst case concerning stress for the host) or
after time delays that depend on the number of selected tests in the
received test selection frames from the host (timing like Hit 747).

Option 2 goes one step further.
If this option is activated the simulator generates result frames out
of the previously received test selection frames from the host. This
is possible because all received test selection frames are stored in
a temporary file called 'SI747WRK.DAT' (see chapter 5.3). The result
frames are generated randomly and sent after a delay time that can be
set in minutes (simulating the measuring time).

5.4.5. Menu item "Parameter/Error checking"
With this option it is possible to check the error behaviour of the host.

- Implement a checksum error in the next test selection request
  The next test selection request that is going to be sent to the host
  gets a wrong checksum implemented .
  The host has to answer with a 'REP' frame.

- Implement a checksum error in next result frame
  The next result frame that is going to be sent to the host gets a
  wrong checksum implemented.
  The host has to answer with a 'REP' frame

- Quit test selection with 'REP' frame
  The next received test selection frame from the host is answered
  with a 'REP' frame. The host has to resend the test selection.

Each of the above described manipulations can be activated only for
the next or for all following messages of the corresponding type.
If, in the latter case the software falls into an endless loop,
press the 'Previous' button to deactivate the manipulation and
leave again the endless loop.

5.4.6. Menu item "Parameter/Test list"
In the file 'SI747_TN.DAT' 60 test names are stored. These test names
are displayed in a list during test result generation. (see chapter
5.1.3).
These test names can be modified with this option.
The 46 names for photometric tests are complemented by the fix names
for test numbers 47, 48, 49 (three ISE tests) and 50, 51, 52 (three
serum index tests) and the eight test names for calculated tests.

5.4.7. Menu item "Parameter/Program configuration"
This menu item allows to select the language of the desktop.
All desktop texts of this program are stored in a separate text file.
In a selection window, you will find the languages available (English
and German are default settings; additional language versions can be
created, if required, with the aid of a text editor program).
In a second option field, you can select between color display and
black/white display. When using laptops or note books with LCD
display, we recommend to use a mono display as it has the better
contrast.

5.5. Main menu item "?"

5.5.1. Help function
Use this function due to display this text on the screen. Use the
print option to print out the help text. In some selection windows
there is a 'Help' button. This button also displays the help text
setting the cursor to the corresponding chapter.

                             CAUTION !
In 'Communication ON' status, the simulator sends no further 'ANY'
frame as long as the help text is displayed !

5.5.2. Program info
The information window contains name and address of the program
developer and the software version.

5.5.3. Terminating the program
Pressing the 'Yes' button terminates the program.

6.0 Technical specifications
    ------------------------

6.1. Files of the program package
The program package contains the following files:

SIMU747.EXE     Simulator program
SI747.INI       Configuration data
SI747_TN.DAT    Test names

SI747GE.TXT     German operator texts
SI747EN.TXT     English operator texts
SI747GEH.TXT    German help text in ASCII format
SI747ENH.TXT    English help text in ASCII format

SI747BUF.DAT    Buffer for the last ten sent messages
SI747WRK.DAT    Temporary file for received test selection frames

VB_EDIT.EXE     Trace Editor program
VB_EDIT.INI     Configuration data for the editor
VB_EDGE.TXT     German operator texts for the editor
VB_EDEN.TXT     English operator texts for the editor

File name extensions:
 *.TRC          Trace files

6.2. Hardware requirements
-  To install the software package on the hard disk, you need a
   capacity of at least 300 kB
-  the computer has to be equipped with a serial interface
-  the software can be operated by mouse

7.0 Update Information

  Version 5.1 - December 1994
    BUG - The serial parameter combination 8 databits, 2 stopbits
          cannot be selected if a parity check shall be used.
    NEW - The existence of the selected COM port is checked.
    NEW - The text length of the input field an the record length
          of the buffer file are limited to 1280.
    NEW - The number of result values in the result list is limited
          to 60.
    NEW - The printer specific control codes for compressed printing
          and left margin can be entered in the file print mask.

  Version 5.2 - December 1994
    NEW - There is an example test request file 'SI747.REQ' in the
          packet. These request files can contain several comment
          lines.

  Version 5.3 - December 1994
    BUG - In the TS File Mode the result generation function can be
          activated independantly from the activation of a TS request
          file. That means that result frames for test selections
          that have been received in batch mode are also generated
          and sent to the host.
    NEW - Test Name Editor screen changed.

  Version 5.4 - December 1994
    NEW - The space character within the communication trace was
          changed from ^ to ú

  Version 5.5 - August 1995
    NEW - The request file can now contain also result strings. The
          example request file 'SI747.REQ' has been extended.

  Version 5.6 - September 1995
    NEW - The text limit option box was disabled because 256 bytes 
          mode is not supported.

  Version 5.7 - July 1997
    NEW - Test Selections with up to 60 test flags can be handled

  Version 5.8 - October 1997
    BUG - Software hangs up at 00:00:00. Also the automatic result
          generation in file mode did not work at that time.
    NEW - A Windows program icon is copied during installation

